ls -l: list the files and directories in long list format with extra information

ls -a: list all including hidden files and directory

ls *.sh: list all the files having .sh extension.

ls -i: list the files and directories with index numbers inodes

ls -d */: list only directories.(we can also specify a pattern)

pwd: Prints the current working directory (present location).

cd path_to_directory: Changes the directory to the specified path.

cd ~ or just cd: Navigates to the home directory of the user.

cd -: Switches to the last working directory.

cd ..: Moves one directory level back (to the parent directory).

cd ../..: Moves back two levels in the directory hierarchy.

mkdir directoryName: Creates a new directory with the specified name

cat filename: To view what's written in a file.

chmod [permissions] [file/directory]: To change the access permissions of files or directories.

history: To check which commands you have run till now.

rm filename/directoryname: To remove a directory/file.

rm -f filename/directoryname: To remove a directory/file forcefully.

touch filename: To create empty file.

touch filename1 filename2: To create 2 empty files.

vim/cat filename: To view content in file.

vim filename and then press i: To write content in file.

ESC plus shift plus :wq!: To save and exit from file.

cat file1 file2 > file3.txt: To combines the contents of file1 and file2 and writes the result to file3.txt.

stat filename: To display detailed information about a file, including its timestamps (access time, modification time, and change time).

touch -a filename: To update the access time of a file without modifying its content.

touch -m filename: To update the modification time of a file in Linux.

history > history: To save all history in filename as history.

:w: It is used in Vim (a text editor) to save (write) the current contents of a file.

:wq!: It is used in Vim to save the current file and quit the editor, even if there are unsaved changes or the file is marked as read-only.

:q- It is used in Vim to quit the editor.

:q- It is used in Vim to quit forcefully the editor.

touch .filename: To create empty hiddenfile.

mkdir .foldername: To create empty hiddenfolder.

sudo apt -get update: To update the list of available software packages and their versions from the software repositories.

sudo apt -get upgrade: To upgrade the list of available software packages and their versions from the software repositories.
